= ActiveReport

This gem is currently in active development.  It needs a lot of documentation and test work before it can really be useful.

== The goal

Java reporting libraries have a lot of flexibility, but they are verbose, require a lot of manual SQL, and are difficult to maintain.

Ruby reporting libraries are great, but none plug directly in to Rails apps to make it a breeze to add to an existing project.  They also don't have a lot of the advanced features of their Java counterparts (such as JasperReports).

ActiveReport aims to bridge the gap by bringing the power of Java reporting libraries to Rails, using a very simple and familiar interface.

== Setup

In your Gemfile:

  gem 'active_report', :git => github.com/wilcox-tech/ActiveReport.git

In your <tt>config/routes.rb</tt>:

  mount ActiveReport::Engine, :at => '/reports' # (or wherever you want it)

== An example report

  class MyAwesomeReport < ActiveReport::Base
    reports_on :orders
    join_with :customers
    date_range_on :orders, :ordered_on
    group :customers, :country
    column :orders, :payment_types, :count => true
  end

This will allow you to generate a report by visiting $mountpoint/MyAwesomeReport (or $mountpoint/my_awesome) in your Rails app.  The report will contain a listing of countries you have received orders from, and the count of payment types.  Something like:

  Australia
  Credit card      10
  Cheque            7
  
  United Kingdom
  Cash             11
  Credit card       8
  Cheque            1

At least that's the plan.  The API and output may look slightly different as development progresses.  :)
